docs/source/command-reference.mdx, before:

---
title: Command Reference
subtitle: ""
description: Reference guide of options for running Apollo MCP Server.
---

<ExperimentalFeature>

This feature is [experimental](/graphos/resources/feature-launch-stages#experimental). Your questions and feedback are highly valued—don't hesitate to get in touch with your Apollo contact or post in the [Apollo Community MCP Server Category](https://community.apollographql.com/c/mcp-server/41).

</ExperimentalFeature>

## Installation

### Linux / MacOS installer

To install or upgrade to the **latest release** of Apollo MCP Server:

```sh showLineNumbers=false
curl -sSL https://mcp.apollo.dev/download/nix/latest | sh
```

To install or upgrade to a **specific version** of Apollo MCP Server (recommended for CI environments to ensure predictable behavior):

```bash
# Note the `v` prefixing the version number
curl -sSL https://mcp.apollo.dev/download/nix/v0.1.0 | sh
```

If your machine doesn't have the `curl` command, you can get the latest version from the [`curl` downloads page](https://curl.se/download.html).

<Note>

These installation methods currently don't support Intel-based Macs. Support is planned for a future release.

</Note>
{/* 
### Windows PowerShell installer

To install or upgrade to the **latest release** of Apollo MCP Server:

```bash
iwr 'https://mcp.apollo.dev/download/win/latest' | iex
```

To install or upgrade to a **specific version** of Apollo MCP Server (recommended for CI environments to ensure predictable behavior):

```bash
# Note the `v` prefixing the version number
iwr 'https://mcp.apollo.dev/download/win/v0.1.0' | iex
``` */}

## Usage

```sh showLineNumbers=false
apollo-mcp-server [OPTIONS] --directory <DIRECTORY>
```

## Options

| Option                                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| :-------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `-d, --directory <DIRECTORY>`                       | The working directory to use. **Required**                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `-s, --schema <SCHEMA>`                             | The path to the GraphQL API schema file.                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `-c, --custom-scalars-config <CUSTOM_SCALARS_CONFIG>` | The path to the GraphQL custom_scalars_config file. [Learn more](/apollo-mcp-server/guides/#custom-scalars).                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `-e, --endpoint <ENDPOINT>`                         | The GraphQL endpoint the server will invoke.<br />[default: `http://127.0.0.1:4000`]                                                                                                                                                         |
| `--header <HEADERS>`                                | Headers to send to the endpoint.                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `--sse-port <SSE_PORT>`                             | Start the server using the SSE transport on the given port.                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `-i, --introspection`                               | Expose the schema to the MCP client through `schema` and `execute` tools. [Learn more](/apollo-mcp-server/guides/#from-schema-introspection).                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `-u, --uplink`                                      | Enable use of uplink to get the schema and persisted queries (requires `APOLLO_KEY` and `APOLLO_GRAPH_REF`). [Learn more](/apollo-mcp-server/guides/#from-graphos-managed-persisted-queries).                                                                                                                              |
| `-x, --explorer`                                    | Expose a tool to open queries in Apollo Explorer (requires `APOLLO_KEY` and `APOLLO_GRAPH_REF`).                                                                                                                                         |
| `-o, --operations [<OPERATIONS>...]`                | Operation files to expose as MCP tools. [Learn more](/apollo-mcp-server/guides/#from-operation-schema-files).                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `--manifest <MANIFEST>`                             | The path to the persisted query manifest containing operations.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `--disable-type-description`                        | Disable operation root field types in tool description.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `--disable-schema-description`                      | Disable schema type definitions referenced by all fields returned by the operation in the tool description.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `-m, --allow-mutations <ALLOW_MUTATIONS>`           | [default: `none`]<br /><br />Possible values:<ul><li>`none`: Don't allow any mutations</li><li>`explicit`: Allow explicit mutations, but don't allow the LLM to build them</li><li>`all`: Allow the LLM to build mutations</li></ul> |
| `-h, --help`                                        | Print help (see a summary with `-h`).                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

### Mapping rover dev options

You can use the [`rover dev`](/rover/commands/dev) command of Rover CLI v0.31 or later to run an Apollo MCP Server instance for local development. 

Running `rover dev --mcp` starts an MCP Server. Additional options, `--mcp*`, directly configure the MCP Server. 

The mapping of `rover dev` options to MCP Server options: 

| `rover dev` option                                     | Equivalent MCP Server option                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| :-------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--mcp-directory <DIRECTORY>` | `-d, --directory <DIRECTORY>` |
| `--mcp-sse-port <PORT>`  |  `--sse-port <PORT>` |
| `--mcp-introspection` | `-i, --introspection`  |
| `--mcp-uplink` |  `-u, --uplink` |
| `--mcp-operations [<OPERATIONS>...]` |  `-o, --operations [<OPERATIONS>...]` |
| `--mcp-header <HEADERS>` | `--header <HEADERS>`   |
| `--mcp-manifest <MANIFEST>` |  `--manifest <MANIFEST>`  |
| `--mcp-custom-scalars-config <CUSTOM_SCALARS_CONFIG>` | `-c, --custom-scalars-config <CUSTOM_SCALARS_CONFIG>` |
| `--mcp-allow-mutations <ALLOW_MUTATIONS>` | `-m, --allow-mutations <ALLOW_MUTATIONS>` |
| `--mcp-disable-type-description` | `--disable-type-description` |
| `--mcp-disable-schema-description` | `--disable-schema-description` |

Commit message:

Add an argument to set the bind address

docs/source/command-reference.mdx, after:

---
title: Command Reference
subtitle: ""
description: Reference guide of options for running Apollo MCP Server.
---

<ExperimentalFeature>

This feature is [experimental](/graphos/resources/feature-launch-stages#experimental). Your questions and feedback are highly valued—don't hesitate to get in touch with your Apollo contact or post in the [Apollo Community MCP Server Category](https://community.apollographql.com/c/mcp-server/41).

</ExperimentalFeature>

## Installation

### Linux / MacOS installer

To install or upgrade to the **latest release** of Apollo MCP Server:

```sh showLineNumbers=false
curl -sSL https://mcp.apollo.dev/download/nix/latest | sh
```

To install or upgrade to a **specific version** of Apollo MCP Server (recommended for CI environments to ensure predictable behavior):

```bash
# Note the `v` prefixing the version number
curl -sSL https://mcp.apollo.dev/download/nix/v0.1.0 | sh
```

If your machine doesn't have the `curl` command, you can get the latest version from the [`curl` downloads page](https://curl.se/download.html).

<Note>

These installation methods currently don't support Intel-based Macs. Support is planned for a future release.

</Note>
{/* 
### Windows PowerShell installer

To install or upgrade to the **latest release** of Apollo MCP Server:

```bash
iwr 'https://mcp.apollo.dev/download/win/latest' | iex
```

To install or upgrade to a **specific version** of Apollo MCP Server (recommended for CI environments to ensure predictable behavior):

```bash
# Note the `v` prefixing the version number
iwr 'https://mcp.apollo.dev/download/win/v0.1.0' | iex
``` */}

## Usage

```sh showLineNumbers=false
apollo-mcp-server [OPTIONS] --directory <DIRECTORY>
```

## Options

| Option                                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| :-------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `-d, --directory <DIRECTORY>`                       | The working directory to use. **Required**                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `-s, --schema <SCHEMA>`                             | The path to the GraphQL API schema file.                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `-c, --custom-scalars-config <CUSTOM_SCALARS_CONFIG>` | The path to the GraphQL custom_scalars_config file. [Learn more](/apollo-mcp-server/guides/#custom-scalars).                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `-e, --endpoint <ENDPOINT>`                         | The GraphQL endpoint the server will invoke.<br />[default: `http://127.0.0.1:4000`]                                                                                                                                                         |
| `--header <HEADERS>`                                | Headers to send to the endpoint.                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `--sse-port <SSE_PORT>`                             | Start the server using the SSE transport on the given port.                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `--sse-address <SSE_ADDRESS>`                       | The IP address to bind the SSE server to (default: 127.0.0.1).                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `-i, --introspection`                               | Expose the schema to the MCP client through `schema` and `execute` tools. [Learn more](/apollo-mcp-server/guides/#from-schema-introspection).                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `-u, --uplink`                                      | Enable use of uplink to get the schema and persisted queries (requires `APOLLO_KEY` and `APOLLO_GRAPH_REF`). [Learn more](/apollo-mcp-server/guides/#from-graphos-managed-persisted-queries).                                                                                                                              |
| `-x, --explorer`                                    | Expose a tool to open queries in Apollo Explorer (requires `APOLLO_KEY` and `APOLLO_GRAPH_REF`).                                                                                                                                         |
| `-o, --operations [<OPERATIONS>...]`                | Operation files to expose as MCP tools. [Learn more](/apollo-mcp-server/guides/#from-operation-schema-files).                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `--manifest <MANIFEST>`                             | The path to the persisted query manifest containing operations.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `--disable-type-description`                        | Disable operation root field types in tool description.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `--disable-schema-description`                      | Disable schema type definitions referenced by all fields returned by the operation in the tool description.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `-m, --allow-mutations <ALLOW_MUTATIONS>`           | [default: `none`]<br /><br />Possible values:<ul><li>`none`: Don't allow any mutations</li><li>`explicit`: Allow explicit mutations, but don't allow the LLM to build them</li><li>`all`: Allow the LLM to build mutations</li></ul> |
| `-h, --help`                                        | Print help (see a summary with `-h`).                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

### Mapping rover dev options

You can use the [`rover dev`](/rover/commands/dev) command of Rover CLI v0.31 or later to run an Apollo MCP Server instance for local development. 

Running `rover dev --mcp` starts an MCP Server. Additional options, `--mcp*`, directly configure the MCP Server. 

The mapping of `rover dev` options to MCP Server options: 

| `rover dev` option                                     | Equivalent MCP Server option                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| :-------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--mcp-directory <DIRECTORY>` | `-d, --directory <DIRECTORY>` |
| `--mcp-sse-port <PORT>`  |  `--sse-port <PORT>` |
| `--mcp-sse-address <ADDRESS>` | `--sse-address <ADDRESS>` |
| `--mcp-introspection` | `-i, --introspection`  |
| `--mcp-uplink` |  `-u, --uplink` |
| `--mcp-operations [<OPERATIONS>...]` |  `-o, --operations [<OPERATIONS>...]` |
| `--mcp-header <HEADERS>` | `--header <HEADERS>`   |
| `--mcp-manifest <MANIFEST>` |  `--manifest <MANIFEST>`  |
| `--mcp-custom-scalars-config <CUSTOM_SCALARS_CONFIG>` | `-c, --custom-scalars-config <CUSTOM_SCALARS_CONFIG>` |
| `--mcp-allow-mutations <ALLOW_MUTATIONS>` | `-m, --allow-mutations <ALLOW_MUTATIONS>` |
| `--mcp-disable-type-description` | `--disable-type-description` |
| `--mcp-disable-schema-description` | `--disable-schema-description` |
