docs/source/telemetry.mdx, before:

---
title: OpenTelemetry Integration
---

AI agents create unpredictable usage patterns and complex request flows that are hard to monitor with traditional methods. The Apollo MCP Server's OpenTelemetry integration provides the visibility you need to run a reliable service for AI agents.

## What you can monitor

- **Agent behavior**: Which tools and operations are used most frequently
- **Performance**: Response times and bottlenecks across tool executions and GraphQL operations  
- **Reliability**: Error rates, failed operations, and request success patterns
- **Distributed request flows**: Complete traces from agent request through your Apollo Router and subgraphs, with automatic trace context propagation

## How it works

The server exports metrics, traces, and events using the OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP), ensuring compatibility with your existing observability stack and seamless integration with other instrumented Apollo services.

## Usage guide

### Quick start: Local development

The fastest way to see Apollo MCP Server telemetry in action is with a local setup that requires only Docker.

#### 5-minute setup
1. Start local observability stack: 
<code>docker run -p 3000:3000 -p 4317:4317 -p 4318:4318 --rm -ti grafana/otel-lgtm</code>
1. Add telemetry config to your `config.yaml`:
   ```yaml
   telemetry:
     exporters:
       metrics:
         otlp:
           endpoint: "http://localhost:4318/v1/metrics"
           protocol: "http/protobuf"
       tracing:
         otlp:
           endpoint: "http://localhost:4318/v1/traces" 
           protocol: "http/protobuf"
   ```
1. Restart your MCP server with the updated config
1. Open Grafana at `http://localhost:3000` and explore your telemetry data. Default credentials are username `admin` with password `admin`.

### Production deployment

For production environments, configure your MCP server to send telemetry to any OTLP-compatible backend. The Apollo MCP Server uses standard OpenTelemetry protocols, ensuring compatibility with all major observability platforms.

#### Configuration example

```yaml
telemetry:
  service_name: "mcp-server-prod"      # Custom service name
  exporters:
    metrics:
      otlp:
        endpoint: "https://your-metrics-endpoint"
        protocol: "http/protobuf"       # or "grpc"
    tracing:
      otlp:
        endpoint: "https://your-traces-endpoint" 
        protocol: "http/protobuf"
```

#### Observability platform integration

The MCP server works with any OTLP-compatible backend. Consult your provider's documentation for specific endpoint URLs and authentication:

- [Datadog OTLP Integration](https://docs.datadoghq.com/opentelemetry/setup/otlp_ingest_in_the_agent/) - Native OTLP support
- [New Relic OpenTelemetry](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/) - Direct OTLP ingestion
- [AWS Observability](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/introduction) - Via AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry
- [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/otlp/) - Hosted Grafana with OTLP
- [Honeycomb](https://docs.honeycomb.io/getting-data-in/opentelemetry/) - OpenTelemetry-native platform
- [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.50/deployment/) - Self-hosted tracing
- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/deployment/) - Self-hosted with flexible routing

#### Production configuration best practices

##### Environment and security
```yaml
# Set via environment variable
export ENVIRONMENT=production

telemetry:
  service_name: "apollo-mcp-server"
  version: "1.0.0"                     # Version for correlation
  exporters:
    metrics:
      otlp:
        endpoint: "https://secure-endpoint"  # Always use HTTPS
        protocol: "http/protobuf"           # Generally more reliable than gRPC
```

##### Performance considerations
- **Protocol choice**: `http/protobuf` is often more reliable through firewalls and load balancers than `grpc`
- **Batch export**: OpenTelemetry automatically batches telemetry data for efficiency
- **Network timeouts**: Default timeouts are usually appropriate, but monitor for network issues

##### Resource correlation
- The `ENVIRONMENT` variable automatically tags all telemetry with `deployment.environment.name`
- Use consistent `service_name` across all your Apollo infrastructure (Router, subgraphs, MCP server)
- Set `version` to track releases and correlate issues with deployments

#### Troubleshooting

##### Common issues
- **Connection refused**: Verify endpoint URL and network connectivity
- **Authentication errors**: Check if your provider requires API keys or special headers
- **Missing data**: Confirm your observability platform supports OTLP and is configured to receive data
- **High memory usage**: Monitor telemetry export frequency and consider sampling for high-volume environments

##### Verification
```bash
# Check if telemetry is being exported (look for connection attempts)
curl -v https://your-endpoint/v1/metrics

# Monitor server logs for OpenTelemetry export errors
./apollo-mcp-server --config config.yaml 2>&1 | grep -i "otel\|telemetry"
```

## Configuration Reference

The OpenTelemetry integration is configured via the `telemetry` section of the [configuration reference page](/apollo-mcp-server/config-file#telemetry).

## Emitted Metrics

The server emits the following metrics, which are invaluable for monitoring and alerting. All duration metrics are in milliseconds.

| Metric Name | Type | Description | Attributes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `apollo.mcp.initialize.count` | Counter | Incremented for each `initialize` request. | (none) |
| `apollo.mcp.list_tools.count` | Counter | Incremented for each `list_tools` request. | (none) |
| `apollo.mcp.get_info.count` | Counter | Incremented for each `get_info` request. | (none) |
| `apollo.mcp.tool.count` | Counter | Incremented for each tool call. | `tool_name`, `success` (bool) |
| `apollo.mcp.tool.duration` | Histogram | Measures the execution duration of each tool call. | `tool_name`, `success` (bool) |
| `apollo.mcp.operation.count`| Counter | Incremented for each downstream GraphQL operation executed by a tool. | `operation.id`, `operation.type` ("persisted_query" or "operation"), `success` (bool) |
| `apollo.mcp.operation.duration`| Histogram | Measures the round-trip duration of each downstream GraphQL operation. | `operation.id`, `operation.type`, `success` (bool) |

In addition to these metrics, the server also emits standard [HTTP server metrics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/http/http-metrics/) (e.g., `http.server.duration`, `http.server.active_requests`) courtesy of the `axum-otel-metrics` library.


## Emitted Traces

Spans are generated for the following actions:

-   **Incoming HTTP Requests**: A root span is created for every HTTP request to the MCP server.
-   **MCP Handler Methods**: Nested spans are created for each of the main MCP protocol methods (`initialize`, `call_tool`, `list_tools`).
-   **Tool Execution**: `call_tool` spans contain nested spans for the specific tool being executed (e.g., `introspect`, `search`, or a custom GraphQL operation).
-   **Downstream GraphQL Calls**: The `execute` tool and custom operation tools create child spans for their outgoing `reqwest` HTTP calls, capturing the duration of the downstream request. The `traceparent` and `tracestate` headers are propagated automatically, enabling distributed traces.

### Cardinality Control

High-cardinality metrics can occur in MCP Servers with large number of tools or when clients are allowed to generate freeform operations.
To prevent performance issues and reduce costs, the Apollo MCP Server provides two mechanisms to control metric cardinality, trace sampling and attribute filtering.

#### Trace Sampling

Configure the Apollo MCP Server to sample traces sent to your OpenTelemetry Collector using the `sampler` field in the `telemetry.tracing` configuration:

- **always_on** - Send every trace
- **always_off** - Disable trace collection entirely
- **0.0-1.0** - Send a specified percentage of traces

#### Attribute Filtering

The Apollo MCP Server configuration also allows for omitting attributes such as `tool_name` or `operation_id` that can often lead to high cardinality metrics in systems that treat each collected attribute value as a new metric.
Both traces and metrics have an `omitted_attributes` option that takes a list of strings. Any attribute name in the list will be filtered out and not sent to the collector.
For detailed configuration options, see the [telemetry configuration reference](/apollo-mcp-server/config-file#telemetry).

Commit message:

docs: adds a reference to the APM dashboard templates

docs/source/telemetry.mdx, after:

---
title: OpenTelemetry Integration
---

AI agents create unpredictable usage patterns and complex request flows that are hard to monitor with traditional methods. The Apollo MCP Server's OpenTelemetry integration provides the visibility you need to run a reliable service for AI agents.

## What you can monitor

- **Agent behavior**: Which tools and operations are used most frequently
- **Performance**: Response times and bottlenecks across tool executions and GraphQL operations  
- **Reliability**: Error rates, failed operations, and request success patterns
- **Distributed request flows**: Complete traces from agent request through your Apollo Router and subgraphs, with automatic trace context propagation

## How it works

The server exports metrics, traces, and events using the OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP), ensuring compatibility with your existing observability stack and seamless integration with other instrumented Apollo services.

## Usage guide

### Quick start: Local development

The fastest way to see Apollo MCP Server telemetry in action is with a local setup that requires only Docker.

#### 5-minute setup
1. Start local observability stack: 
<code>docker run -p 3000:3000 -p 4317:4317 -p 4318:4318 --rm -ti grafana/otel-lgtm</code>
1. Add telemetry config to your `config.yaml`:
   ```yaml
   telemetry:
     exporters:
       metrics:
         otlp:
           endpoint: "http://localhost:4318/v1/metrics"
           protocol: "http/protobuf"
       tracing:
         otlp:
           endpoint: "http://localhost:4318/v1/traces" 
           protocol: "http/protobuf"
   ```
1. Restart your MCP server with the updated config
1. Open Grafana at `http://localhost:3000` and explore your telemetry data. Default credentials are username `admin` with password `admin`.

### Production deployment

For production environments, configure your MCP server to send telemetry to any OTLP-compatible backend. The Apollo MCP Server uses standard OpenTelemetry protocols, ensuring compatibility with all major observability platforms.

#### Configuration example

```yaml
telemetry:
  service_name: "mcp-server-prod"      # Custom service name
  exporters:
    metrics:
      otlp:
        endpoint: "https://your-metrics-endpoint"
        protocol: "http/protobuf"       # or "grpc"
    tracing:
      otlp:
        endpoint: "https://your-traces-endpoint" 
        protocol: "http/protobuf"
```

#### Observability platform integration

The MCP server works with any OTLP-compatible backend. Consult your provider's documentation for specific endpoint URLs and authentication:

- [Datadog OTLP Integration](https://docs.datadoghq.com/opentelemetry/setup/otlp_ingest_in_the_agent/) - Native OTLP support
- [New Relic OpenTelemetry](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/) - Direct OTLP ingestion
- [AWS Observability](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/introduction) - Via AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry
- [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/otlp/) - Hosted Grafana with OTLP
- [Honeycomb](https://docs.honeycomb.io/getting-data-in/opentelemetry/) - OpenTelemetry-native platform
- [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.50/deployment/) - Self-hosted tracing
- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/deployment/) - Self-hosted with flexible routing

#### Pre-built dashboard templates

Apollo provides ready-to-use dashboard templates for monitoring your Apollo MCP Server. These templates are available in the [apollographql/apm-templates](https://github.com/apollographql/apm-templates) repository and include visualizations for tool calls, HTTP server metrics, and request lifecycle events.

| Platform | Template Location                                                              |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Grafana  | [`grafana/`](https://github.com/apollographql/apm-templates/tree/main/grafana) |
| Datadog  | [`datadog/`](https://github.com/apollographql/apm-templates/tree/main/datadog) |

Import these templates into your observability platform to get started quickly with pre-configured graphs and alerts.

#### Production configuration best practices

##### Environment and security
```yaml
# Set via environment variable
export ENVIRONMENT=production

telemetry:
  service_name: "apollo-mcp-server"
  version: "1.0.0"                     # Version for correlation
  exporters:
    metrics:
      otlp:
        endpoint: "https://secure-endpoint"  # Always use HTTPS
        protocol: "http/protobuf"           # Generally more reliable than gRPC
```

##### Performance considerations
- **Protocol choice**: `http/protobuf` is often more reliable through firewalls and load balancers than `grpc`
- **Batch export**: OpenTelemetry automatically batches telemetry data for efficiency
- **Network timeouts**: Default timeouts are usually appropriate, but monitor for network issues

##### Resource correlation
- The `ENVIRONMENT` variable automatically tags all telemetry with `deployment.environment.name`
- Use consistent `service_name` across all your Apollo infrastructure (Router, subgraphs, MCP server)
- Set `version` to track releases and correlate issues with deployments

#### Troubleshooting

##### Common issues
- **Connection refused**: Verify endpoint URL and network connectivity
- **Authentication errors**: Check if your provider requires API keys or special headers
- **Missing data**: Confirm your observability platform supports OTLP and is configured to receive data
- **High memory usage**: Monitor telemetry export frequency and consider sampling for high-volume environments

##### Verification
```bash
# Check if telemetry is being exported (look for connection attempts)
curl -v https://your-endpoint/v1/metrics

# Monitor server logs for OpenTelemetry export errors
./apollo-mcp-server --config config.yaml 2>&1 | grep -i "otel\|telemetry"
```

## Configuration Reference

The OpenTelemetry integration is configured via the `telemetry` section of the [configuration reference page](/apollo-mcp-server/config-file#telemetry).

## Emitted Metrics

The server emits the following metrics, which are invaluable for monitoring and alerting. All duration metrics are in milliseconds.

| Metric Name | Type | Description | Attributes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `apollo.mcp.initialize.count` | Counter | Incremented for each `initialize` request. | (none) |
| `apollo.mcp.list_tools.count` | Counter | Incremented for each `list_tools` request. | (none) |
| `apollo.mcp.get_info.count` | Counter | Incremented for each `get_info` request. | (none) |
| `apollo.mcp.tool.count` | Counter | Incremented for each tool call. | `tool_name`, `success` (bool) |
| `apollo.mcp.tool.duration` | Histogram | Measures the execution duration of each tool call. | `tool_name`, `success` (bool) |
| `apollo.mcp.operation.count`| Counter | Incremented for each downstream GraphQL operation executed by a tool. | `operation.id`, `operation.type` ("persisted_query" or "operation"), `success` (bool) |
| `apollo.mcp.operation.duration`| Histogram | Measures the round-trip duration of each downstream GraphQL operation. | `operation.id`, `operation.type`, `success` (bool) |

In addition to these metrics, the server also emits standard [HTTP server metrics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/http/http-metrics/) (e.g., `http.server.duration`, `http.server.active_requests`) courtesy of the `axum-otel-metrics` library.


## Emitted Traces

Spans are generated for the following actions:

-   **Incoming HTTP Requests**: A root span is created for every HTTP request to the MCP server.
-   **MCP Handler Methods**: Nested spans are created for each of the main MCP protocol methods (`initialize`, `call_tool`, `list_tools`).
-   **Tool Execution**: `call_tool` spans contain nested spans for the specific tool being executed (e.g., `introspect`, `search`, or a custom GraphQL operation).
-   **Downstream GraphQL Calls**: The `execute` tool and custom operation tools create child spans for their outgoing `reqwest` HTTP calls, capturing the duration of the downstream request. The `traceparent` and `tracestate` headers are propagated automatically, enabling distributed traces.

### Cardinality Control

High-cardinality metrics can occur in MCP Servers with large number of tools or when clients are allowed to generate freeform operations.
To prevent performance issues and reduce costs, the Apollo MCP Server provides two mechanisms to control metric cardinality, trace sampling and attribute filtering.

#### Trace Sampling

Configure the Apollo MCP Server to sample traces sent to your OpenTelemetry Collector using the `sampler` field in the `telemetry.tracing` configuration:

- **always_on** - Send every trace
- **always_off** - Disable trace collection entirely
- **0.0-1.0** - Send a specified percentage of traces

#### Attribute Filtering

The Apollo MCP Server configuration also allows for omitting attributes such as `tool_name` or `operation_id` that can often lead to high cardinality metrics in systems that treat each collected attribute value as a new metric.
Both traces and metrics have an `omitted_attributes` option that takes a list of strings. Any attribute name in the list will be filtered out and not sent to the collector.
For detailed configuration options, see the [telemetry configuration reference](/apollo-mcp-server/config-file#telemetry).
